Welcome back.
Let's do some tests that are a little bit more difficult to do we make this a little bit smaller lesser
Sab and PM run test just to have it running in the background.
That's always nice.
And let's go into our card.
Or a counter button because this is a little bit more unique right.
It's not a stateless component anymore.
We actually have a state with the count.
And yeah we have a little bit more logic.
We also have this set state that is happening where we increment our state count.
And I think in the previous video I had this as a separate method that you can call in here.
For now we can just leave it the way it is the ideas that we want to test this state function that it
actually increments because That's why do you expect from a counter.
So how are we going to test the as we know the very first step is to actually create a test file so
to say.
CONAN Brian got tasked dodgy Yes.
And the first thing we want to do.
Well again we've already kind of done this before so I'm going to copy from the Carlists test.
Let's close some of these just to clean things up
and copy and paste this.
Now instead of card list were testing the counter Bawden.
And we also don't really need our mock robots anymore.
And this conurbation doesn't have any props that it receives Well it has the color prop actually.
So let's just do a concert mock color and we'll say that this mock color would just be red and we'll
give it a sure.
This is an actual component.
We'll give it a color of mock color.
Now here's the thing even though it's a stateful component we can still do match snapshot testing to
it.
I mean it's still a component.
So let's save
and now we have a new snapshot perfect.
So if we ever modify conurbation and it's going to error out that's good.
Let's make this a little bit smaller.
All right let's create a now there are tests in here.
And by the way if you want to you could use the describe and then group all the tests together.
But I've already shown you how to do that.
You can do that on your own if you want to have more organization for your tests.
Let's have a test this time that will say we want to make sure that a correctly
increments the counter.
And again our usual syntax and in here we can write tests.
So what can we do.
Well first thinks let's just do a concert.
Rapper and this is just going to be the shallow rendering of our component and we'll just have a mock
caller as well that we're going to use.
All right so now that we have this instead of just always typing expect and then doing this shallow
we can just say expect rapper and we can write more test out weigh in here.
Let's say that we want to have rapper Daut find another thing that we get with the enzyme package.
So on the wrapper just like we would in Jay query or query select all we can do something like find
where we find let's say the ID and this has to be square brackets actually where we have ID of
by doing this I can now go into my conurbation and just give it an ID of
and we'll make sure that we make the snapshot pass.
And now we can find this ID counter which is the button.
Now and we can do something called simulate and simulate an event such as a click event which are Konner
has an on click event.
So we just simulated a click on this conurbation.
So if we simulated a click on the counter Bawden and the state or the count in the state is zero we
expect the count now to be 1.
So all we would need to do is say xpect wrapper we can use something called state.
So this is going to grab the state and we expect that state to equal
count of one.
Let's see if that actually works.
When you out some semi-colons here.
All right everything is passing.
But again we want to make sure that it's actually testing while you want let's say this is zero now
now oh it's failed.
And let's go back again just to make sure our thing passes.
I'm going to simulate a click again.
So if I go.
No.
Now it's expecting a count of two.
So I changed it to hand our tests are passing.
That's pretty cool.
Now if I remove this counter
and I have two failed tests now because on top of running the snapshot which fails now because we've
changed the look of the component We've also removed the way for us to grab that component by ID and
you can see that method simulate is only meant to be run on a single node zero fund because we werent
able to find the ID of counter.
And you can do many things here to grab an object.
I usually like having an ID because well just raise nicely but thats pretty cool right.
We just in very simple way tested our state and once again dont get overwhelmed by all this working
with the just cheat sheet and the enzyme documentation you can pick this up in a day fairly easy and
I don't remember all of these.
I usually go to their documentation and say oh yeah they have assimulate method.
Oh yeah they have the state method to grab the state and thats how you work as a developer or you dont
have an encyclopedia all in your head of all the methods you just know that this is what enzyme and
just do.
Let me go check out their documentation and see how I can grab state.
Oh and by the way if I add again remember this is javascript were just going one by one if I add here
another click and the bottom here I run another expect I'm going to expect that it's now a three.
And you see that all my tests still pass because everything happens sequentially.
And if I add a nother click here then I can or let's say this one is going to be a key press even if
there's a key press on there because there's no key press event.
I still expect the state of Kaante all three.
There you go.
Now when you're testing there are so many things that you can test for you can just keep going and keep
going and keep drawing but you want to use your time wisely.
Does this test.
Is it enough to move on to other tests.
And it's always a tradeoff on how your project is doing.
How much other tests your project have and how much time and resources you have to write tests.
Let's do one last one.
I'm going to expect that the rapper Daut prop's
to say to equal the same color red.
Let's see if that works.
All right I got a failed test.
And that's because I was just kind of guessing based on state whether it has the props and two equal.
So let's curl up and we see that we expected color red but instead we got a ton of other props because
while we have color red but we also get children and we also have Heidi as well as well as the on click
event.
Another thing we can do here is perhaps just do color let's save and now we get red which is good so
we want to say two equal.
And there you go.
Our tests pass we do have a console log here which is kind of annoying So let's remove that from the
counter button and there are test surpassing and looking very very nice.
I hope that you got a general idea of how to test components.
And by the way this snapshot folder you're going to actually include that in your get hub or whatever
source control you have.
You're going to push that and committed to your project because any new developer that comes onto the
project is going to download the latest master.
And you also want to make sure that they have these snapshots of when they run the tests and they modify
a component.
These snapshots are going to check against the older version and make sure that this new new developer
doesn't change anything.
So again these things are also going to go into your source control or version control.
All right I'll see you in the next video.
Bye bye.